---
title: '2018 Reading Review'
date: 2018-12-31
permalink: /posts/2018/12/2018reads
tags:
  - reading
  - books
---

Here is my first annual Sam’s reading review. A huge source of what I read comes from people posting on the internet, even when they don’t know I am stealing their recommendations, so I have decided to put this up so others can take from it what they want. More importantly, let me know if you have must-reads that you discovered or rediscovered in 2018. 

**Nonfiction**

_Barracoon_, by Zora Neale Hurston:\
This book is eye-opening, tragic and fascinating. It is Hurston’s oral history of the last living slave from the last slave ship. His storytelling skill is truly remarkable, and his life heartbreaking. 

_The World as It Is_, by Ben Rhodes:\
In my mind, this will be THE enduring memoir of the Obama years. Well-written and very interesting. 

_Guantanamo Diary_, by Mohamedou Ould Slahi:\
This book is enthralling and horrible. As powerful a testimony as there can be against torture, I imagine.

_Ask Me About My Uterus_, by Abby Norman:\
A memoir that is more than that, this book is full of the fascinating, and horrifying, details of women’s health in modern times, told through the lens of Norman’s struggles with endometriosis. 

**Fiction** 

_The Overstory_, by Richard Powers:\
This book is fantastic. Any work of fiction that makes you think as much about the real world as this one does deserves to be read. 

_The Miseducation of Cameron Post_, by Emily M. Danforth:\
Life isn’t simple, and people aren’t always good. Danforth makes the characters come to life here, and creates a compelling world. 

_Exit West_, by Mohsin Hamid:\
A stunning magical realism tale. Thoroughly enjoyed.

_Milkman_, by Anna Burns:\
A book I initially thought was oversold, this captivated me. The narrative voice is unusual in a perfect way, and this book feels more like an introspection than a work of fiction. 

I tried to keep the above short, and failed. I have a whole bunch of honorable mentions, but don’t want this to drag on; happy to send them along if you want, though.
